NAME: Tom Lam, Serena Mao
EMAIL: tlam@hmc.edu, smao@hmc.edu
ID: 40210352, 40210158
SLIPDAYS: 5

(3 days from Tom, 2 days from Serena)

ext2_fs.h: premade header with commonly used structs for superblock, directory entries, etc. also includes important constants used in our program

lab3a.c: when converted to a module, takes in a file system image and outputs information regarding the superblock, inodes, directory entries, indirect blocks. It includes information regarding the following:

    1. SUPERBLOCK
    total number of blocks (decimal)
    total number of i-nodes (decimal)
    block size (in bytes, decimal)
    i-node size (in bytes, decimal)
    blocks per group (decimal)
    i-nodes per group (decimal)
    first non-reserved i-node (decimal)

    2. GROUP
    group number (decimal, starting from zero)
    total number of blocks in this group (decimal)
    total number of i-nodes in this group (decimal)
    number of free blocks (decimal)
    number of free i-nodes (decimal)
    block number of free block bitmap for this group (decimal)
    block number of free i-node bitmap for this group (decimal)
    block number of first block of i-nodes in this group (decimal)

    3. free block entries
    BFREE
    number of the free block (decimal)

    4. free I-node entries
    IFREE
    number of the free I-node (decimal)

    5. inode summary
    inode number (decimal)
    file type ('f' for file, 'd' for directory, 's' for symbolic link, '?" for anything else)
    mode (low order 12-bits, octal)
    owner (decimal)
    group (decimal)
    link count (decimal)
    time of last I-node change (mm/dd/yy hh:mm:ss, GMT)
    modification time (mm/dd/yy hh:mm:ss, GMT)
    time of last access (mm/dd/yy hh:mm:ss, GMT)
    file size (decimal)
    number of (512 byte) blocks of disk space (decimal) taken up by this file

    6. Directory Entries
    parent inode number (decimal) ... the I-node number of the directory that contains this entry
    logical byte offset (decimal) of this entry within the directory
    inode number of the referenced file (decimal)
    entry length (decimal)
    name length (decimal)
    name (string, surrounded by single-quotes).

    7. Indirect block references
    I-node number of the owning file (decimal)
    (decimal) level of indirection for the block being scanned ... 1 for single indirect, 2 for double indirect, 3 for triple
    logical block offset (decimal) represented by the referenced block.
    If the referenced block is a data block, this is the logical block offset of that block within the file.
    If the referenced block is a single- or double-indirect block, this is the same as the logical offset of the first data block to which it refers.
    block number of the (1, 2, 3) indirect block being scanned (decimal) . . . not the highest level block (in the recursive scan), but the lower level block that contains the block reference reported by this entry.
    block number of the referenced block (decimal)


Makefile: to build and run the deliverable program. The higher level targets should be:
    default ... compile your program (with the -Wall and -Wextra options) to produce an executable named lab3a
    dist ... create the deliverable tarball
    clean ... delete all programs and output generated by the Makefile.